For this first exercise of the chapter,
we're going to
write a program to play a simple little
guessing game.
So let me make sure I don't have my
previous version up here.
Okay, so it's gone.
So we're going to call our program
guess.py.
So let's open it up.
So the first thing we're gonna do is store
the answer to the game in a variable
answer.
And the answer is Watson.
And in a moment you'll find out what the
question is.
First we're gonna tell the user that we're
gonna play a guessing and they get three
tries.
Then we're gonna say what is the name of
the computer that played on Jeopardy.
So the first thing we do is get the user's
response.
We'll store it in a variable called
Response.
Using raw input.
Now here's where we test.
We say, if response, equals answer, print,
that is right.
Else, print, sorry guess again.
Then we say, response equals wrong input,
then we test again.
So here we're nesting an if statement
inside the else, or actually in the if.
These are called nested if statements.
If response is equal to answer, then we
tell the user that they're right.
Otherwise, else print, sorry, one more
guess.
Again.
Responds equals raw input.
And if there's font's is equal to the
answer.
Print.
That is right.
[UNKNOWN]
print, sorry no more guess'.
The answer is.
And we'll just use the variable value
answer plus a period.
Let's test this and see how well it works.
So we'll do an Exit>Save, clear the
screen.
And then run the script.
Let's say, Deep Blue.
It's not Deep Blue okay it's Bob oh that's
right
it's Watson so on the 3rd try I got it
play again this time we'll get it on the
first try
let's play it again we'll say Eniac then
we'll say Watson.
One more time and this time let's not get
it right at all.
Eniac.
Sorry.
Blue, Joe, Sorry no more guesses the
answer is Watson.
So here we've used the is statement.
the ifel statement in a nested manner to
allow the user 3 guesses.
a better way to write this program would
have
been to use a loop that looped through
three times.
But we haven't learned how to write loops
yet.
We're gonna learn how to do that in the
next chapter.
So this was the best way I could think of
to
write this program and demonstrate how to
use nested if else statements.
With that we're finished this exercise and
we're ready to move on to the next
and last exercise for this chapter where
we demonstrate how to work with the if.
L if statement.
[BLANK_AUDIO]